Preliminary research questions for the Twitter team
1. What is the relationship between the frequencies of each (or top) hashtag/certain keywords and the time and severeity of the outbreak in tagged location?
2. What does the corpus say about the outbreak between the first known case and first reported death? How does the discourse differ from that of later in the outbreak in various locations and different languages?
3. How often is the outbreak discussed by various milestones, including by the first 1,000 cases, declaration of state of emergency, border closing, etc, in various locations and languages? 
4. How does the above findings change when we compare a metro and rural epicenter in one country, two metro/rural regions in  different countries, etc? 
5. Which hashtags/keywords attracted the most retweets? 
6. What types of images are mostly shared, memes/for fun, social distancing, local situations, etc?
7. What do the networks generated by different hashtags and sentiment look like and differentiate from each other? 
8. What main spacial elements does the corpus contain, i.e. supermarkets, hospitals, the White House, the street/protests? What can we learn about the discourse by thinking about space? 
9. How does the narrative (let's say going by topic modeling results) at the end (maybe the 30 days after the peak is officially confirmed by the CDC, or x days before the first days with zero new case) differ from those during the first 30 days and peak month? In other word, how does the story end? What do people care about at the end of the pandemic? 

